{U) Summary Table of Findings

 
     

IAN CAMPAIGNS In

 

{U) Finding #1: The Kremin explors free or independent medi spaces and open democra-
cles to conduct active measures in Europe,

 

(U) Finding #2: Russia supports fringe politcal parties and non govemmental organizations.
Europe to further the Krernln's agenda while aso disparaging or discrediting politicians
and groups seen as hostile to Moscow.

 

 

(U) Finding 93; Russta conducts increasingly aggressive cyber operations against European
ovement; a tactic that will continue to presenta profound threat.

 

(0) Finding 16: Russia argers disaffected European populations and exploits social, pai
cal, and racial divisions in an efort to sow discord, encourage unrest, and indie protests.

 

  

(U) Finding £5: Russia leverages business and ccanomic ties in Europe to achieve the Krem-
Tis goals, message displeasure, or inflict punishment.

 

(U) Finding #5: European governments 3nd media outlets are conducting a variety of acivi-
ies to combat Russian influence campaigns.

      
  
   

       

JE UNITED'S

(U) Finding #7: Russia conducted cyberattacks on US. politcal institutions in 2015-2016

 

1U) Finding #8; Russian-state actors and third-party intermediaries were responsible for the
dissemination of documents and communications stolen fram U.S. politcal organizations.

 

(0) Finding #9: The Russian government used RT to advance ft malign influence carnpaig
during the 2016 U.S. presidential election

 

 

(U) Finding #10: Russian intelligence leveraged socal media in an attempt to sow social dis
cord and to undermine the Us. electoral process.

   
 
   

(U) Finding #11: Tne Federal Bureau of Investigation’ notification to numerous Russian
hacking victim was largely inadequate.

 

{U) Finding #12: Communication between the Department of Homeland Security and state
lection officials was impeded by state officials’ mistrust of federal government overreach
coupled with a unprecedented level of Russian cyber Intrusions.

 

 

 
  
   

ings (cont.

(U) Finding #13: The Joint Office of the Director of National Intelligence and Department of
Homeland Security public statement attributing election interference to Russia was incffec-
tive,

 

(©) indi

 

1g 14: The Executive Branch's post election response was Insuficlent.

 

(U} Finding #15: The majority of the Intelience Community Assessment judgments on
Russia's lection activites employed proper analytic trader,

 

(U) Finding #16: The Inteligence Community Assessment judgments on Putin's strategic
Intentions did not employ proper analytic tradecratt.

 

(0) Finding #17: The Federal Bureau of Investigation opened an enterprise counterintell
gence investigation into the Trump campaign afer receiving Information related to Trump
campaign foreign polly advisor George Papadopoulos.

 

(U) Finding #18: As Bart of the enterprise counterintel gence investigation into the Trump
campaign, the Federal Bureau of Investigation opened an individual counterinteligence.
Investigation nto Carter Page.

 

(0) Finding #19: The dossier compiled by Christopher Steele formed an essential port of an
application to the Forelgn Intelligence Survellance Court to abtain electronic survellance.
on Carter Page.

 

(U) Finding: 20: Special Counsel Robert Mueller indicted Paul Manafort on several charges,
ane of which relstz to allegations of collusion, coordination, or conspiracy between the
“Trump campaign and the Russian government.

 

{U) Finding #21: [classified]

 

(0) Finding #22: General Flynn pleaded gully to making a false statement to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation regarding hs December 2016 conversations with Amibssador Ks-
ak, sven though the Federal Bureau of Investigation agents dl not detect any deception
daring Fyn’ interview.

 

 

(0) Finding #23: Executive Branch officials id not notify the Trump campaign that mer
bers of the campaign were assessed to be potential counterlntellgence concerns.

 

(U) Finding #24: Tne February 2018 indictment of the Internet Research Agency and Rus-
Sian nationals expases Russian actors and their intent to spread distrust towards the cand-
dates and the politcal system in general,

 

 

 
(1) Summary Table of Findings {cont.)

 

{U) Finding #25: When asked directly, none of the interviesved witnesses provided evi-
donce of collusion, coordination, or conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Rus-
sian goveramant.

 

(U) Finding: #26: The Committee found no evidence that President Trump's pre-camgsign
business dealings formed the basis for collusion during the campaign.

 

(U) Finding #27: The Republican national security establishment's opposition to candidate
Trump created opportunites fo two less-experienced individuals wth pro-Russia views to
serve as campaign advisors: George Papadopoulos and Carter Page.

 

(0) Finding #25: The change inthe Republican Party platform regareing Ukraine resulted in
a stronger position against Russa, not a weaker ane, and there Is no evidence that Paul
Manafort was involved.

 

(U) Finding #25: There is io evidence that Trump associates were involved in the theft or
publication of Clirton campaign-rlated emails, although Trump associates had numerous
ill advised contacts with Wikileaks

 

0] Finding 50: Carter Page did not travel to Moscow in July 2016 on behalf of the Trump
campaign, but the Committee is concemed about is seemingly incomplete accounts of bis
activity In Moscow.

 

(U} Finding #31: George Papadapoula attempts to leverage his Russian contacts to facil
tote meetings betueen the Trump campaign and Russians was unsuccessful

 

U) Finding #32: Donald Trump Jr, Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort attended a June 9,
2016, meeting ot Trump Tower where they expected to recelve—but did not ultimately ob-
taln—derogatory information on candidate Clinton from Ruslan sources.

 

 

 

(U} Finding #33: Donald Trump Jr. briefly met with a Russian govornment offical at the.
2015 National Rifle Association annual meeting, but the Committee found no cuidence tht
the two discussed the USS. presidential election

 

(0) Finding #34: The Committee found no evidence that meetings between Trump assoc
ates including Jef Sesslons—and official representatives of the Russian government —
Including Ambassador Kslyak—refiected collusion, coordination, or cons piracy with the
Russian government.

 

 

 
{U) Summary Table of Findings {cont.}

 

(U) Finding #35: Possible Russian efforts to set up a “back channel” with Trump associates
after the clection suggest the absence of callusion during the campaign, since the camu-
nication associated with collusion would have rendered such a “back channel” unneces-

sary.

(U) Finding #36: Prior to conducting opposition rosoarch targeting candidate Trump's busl-
ess dealings, Fusion GPS conducted research benefitting Russian interests.

(U) Finding #37: The law firm Perkins Cole hired Fusion GPS on behalf of the Clinton cam-
paign and the Demacratic National Committee to research candidate Trump's Russia ies.

 

(U) Finding #38: Christopher Stele claims to have obtained his dossier information second-
‘and thirc-hand from purported high-placed Russian sources, such as government officials
with links to the Kremlin and intelligence services.

(U) Finn #35: Christopher Steeles information from Russian sources was provided di-
rectly to Fuslon GPS and Perkins Coie and indirectly the Citon campaign

 

(U) Finding #40: Leaks of classified information regarding Russian intentions to sow discord
inthe U.S. presidential election began prior to the election day—November 5, 2015.

 

(U) Finding #41: Looks of classified information alleging Russian intentions to help elect
candidate Trump increased dramatically after the election day—November 3, 2015

(U) Finding #32: The leaks prior to the classified Intelligence Community Assessment's pub-
lication, particulary leaks aceurring after the U.S. prosidential election, correlate to specific
language found In the Intelligence Community Assessment.

 

(U) Finding #23: Continued leaks of clasifed information have damaged national security
and potentially endangered lives.

 

(U) Finding #83: Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, nov 3 CN nation-
al security analyst, provided incansistent testimony to the Comittee about his contacts
with the metia, Inluding CNN.

 

 

 
{U) Summary Table of Recommendations

{U) Recommendation #1: European governments, non-governmental organizations, busi
nesses, think tanks, and academia shauld strengthen legal and regulatory environments,
pramote medi pluralism, build professional media associations, and improve the financial
sustainability of legitimate news outlets

 

{U) Recommendation #2: European governments, non-governmental organizations, busi-
esses, think tanks, and academia should Implement and encourage mlti-pronged, coun-
tryewide efforts by both public an private entities to combat Russian propaganda, tech
nical, and cyber operations.

 

{U) Recommendation 3: European governments, non-governmental organizations, busi
nesses, think tanks, and academia should implement more stringent cyber securlty practic:
es,ich as multifactor authentication and encryption of sensitive data, as well a5 cducating
workforces on basic cyber security topics and bast practices.

 

[U) Recommendation 4: European goverment should look to long-term solutions to
lessen econamic dependence on Russia,

(1) Recommendation #5: Congress should identity options available to the private sector
and federal government that would address the socio media vulnerabilities exploited by
the Russian goverment.

 

{U) Recommendation #6: Cangress should consider updating the Forelgn Intelligence Sur-
veillance Act to cover malicious international cyber actors.

 

(U) Recommendation #7: The Federal Bureau of Investigation should improve cyberattack
victim notification.

 

(U) Recommendation #2: Threats identified by the Intelligence Communcy to state and lo-
cal cleetons Infrastructure should be immediately briofod to appropriate state and local
officals. When threats sre dented, the federal Government should conduct an expect
ed declassification review to ensure that the threat Information can reach all necessary
state and local officals I a timely manner.

 

{U) Recommendation #9: Tha Sccetary of Homeland Security should provide certain desig-
ated state and local election officials appropriate security clearances to ene those off
cil ta respond to election related threats.

 

 
{U) Summary Table of Recommendations {cont

 

(U) Recommendation 1.0: Significant threats to Us. elections identified by the Intelligence.
Community, including cyberattacks directed st politcal organizations, should be immedi-
ately reported to the Congressional intelligence committees.

 

(U) Recommendation #11: Congress should encourage the adoption of Nationa! Institute of
Standards and Technology cyber security standards, such a those adopted by the Elections.
Assistance Commission, by providing federal resaurces to state and local governments to
Facilitate such adoption. Funds should be tie to the adoption and certification of elections
Systems to appropriate standards.

 

 

(L) Recommendation #12: Congress should consider additional funding for the National
Institute of Standards and Technology to enable hetter outreach to state and local govern-
ments

 

 

(1) Recommendation #1: Congress should consider a one-time grant to state and local
election agencies to condi a risk assessment of those agencies’ computer systems.

 

(1) Recommendation #14: Congress should consider strengthening the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 to ensure that bath statewide voter registration and tabulation systems are
better protected from foreign cyber threats.

 

(U) Recommendation #15: The Department of Homeland Security should provide the own-
er or operator of any electronic election infrastructure affected by any significant foreign
cyber intrusion vith a briefing and include steps that may be taken to mitigate such intr

 

(1) Recommendation 81: State and local governments should be encouraged to establish
redundancies that are not dependent on current elections Infrastructure, such as a mecha-
ism that rains individual vote records, ensuring the Intepriy of the vote in the event of
a compromise of vating infrastructure cue to a farelgn cyberattack, An example of such a
redundancy is 3 contemporaneously created paper record reflecting the voters selections.

 

(U) Recommendation A17: Whi I I important a implement lessons learned from the Ex-
ecutive Branch’ response, Congress should not hamper the Executive Branch's ability to
use discretion In rosponding 10. particular foreign threat.

 

(U] Recommendation 15: Cangress should consider repeal

 

& the Logan Act

 

 
 

{U) Recommendation #19: All U.S. presidential campaigns should recelve unclassified coun-
nce briefings at an appropriate time prior o.2 nomination convention.

 

 

  

{U) Recommendation #720: When consistent with national security, the Intelligence Cant
munity should Immediately inform U.5, presidential candidates when ft discovers a legit
mate counterinteligence threat to the campaign, and promply notify Congress.

 

{U) ecommendation #21; Both houses of Congress should consider requiring all staff to
receive an annual counterintelizence awareness briefing,

{U) Recommendation 22: Political campalgns and law enforcement shad ensure that
their counterinteligence defenses appropriately account fo the rol of cut-outs and Inter-
mediaries.

 

Ul Recommendation #23: Congress should consider amending current campalgn finance
Jaws to further Increase transparency regarding services provided by forelgn persons or
entities.

 

(4) Recommendation 824: Each component of the Inteligance Community should update
its guidance regarding media contacts to ensure the guidance applies o every cmployoe,
Including senior officials

 

{U) Recammendation 425: Congress should consider legislation to increase the penalties
for unauthorized disclosures of chssifcd Information.

 

(1) Recommendation #26: The Executive Branch should consider instituting mandatory pal-
Ygraphs for all non-<onfirmed politcal appointees that have top secret clearances.

 

 
